Update Spinnaker guide (#5115)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/guides/continuous-delivery/spinnaker.md

in the Spinnaker pipeline UI.

By default, the plugin suggests using the [`pulumi/pulumi`](https://hub.docker.com/r/pulumi/pulumi) container image available publicly on Docker Hub.
Alternatively, you can also try to use one of the other language-specific images that are available under the [`pulumi`](https://hub.docker.com/u/pulumi) org on Docker Hub.

If you would like to use your own container image for the job, ensure that the following requirements are met:

* Your container should include the Pulumi CLI, and any necessary language runtime tools, such as `node`, `python`, `dotnet`, or `go`.
* If your container image is in a private registry, your Spinnaker cluster must have the proper credentials to pull from the registry.

The preconfigured job will also need to access your VCS to clone the repo into the container.
See the next section about configuring secrets to learn how you can use private VCS repos with the plugin.

### Secrets

To pass sensitive secrets to the Kubernetes batch job run by the plugin, define a [Kubernetes `Secret`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/).

> {{% notes "warning" %}}

Author: Hmm this still renders as an informational note only. Does a "warning" note exist in our templates?

Reviewer: I assume so, unless I'm interpreting the notes shortcode incorrectly. https://github.com/pulumi/docs/blob/master/layouts/shortcodes/notes.html#L2

Reviewer: Nevermind. The type needs to be explicitly set. I just checked this in my local branch. (Same for the other warnings above.) Specifying anything else (or nothing at all) will result in a note.

```suggestion
{{% notes type="warning" %}}
```

The `Secret` resource must be in the same namespace as the Pulumi stage input when you configure the pipeline.
{{% /notes %}}

Sensitive secrets such as the Pulumi Access Token, the cloud provider credentials, or even your VCS credentials
(eg. GitHub, Bitbucket, GitLab), should be defined as key/value pairs in the `Secret` resource.

> If you are using either the Pulumi-managed or the self-hosted [service backend]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/state/" >}}), get a

Reviewer: (Need to remove trailing slashes from relref strings.)

```suggestion
If you are using either the Pulumi-managed or the self-hosted [service backend]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/state" >}}), get a
```

        weight: 1
---

This page provides an overview of how to use the Pulumi plugin for Spinnaker to run Pulumi apps. Pulumi doesn't require

> any particular arrangement of stacks or workflow to work in a CI/CD system. So the steps described here can be altered

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
any particular arrangement of stacks or workflow to work with a CI/CD system, so the steps described here can be altered
```

to fit into any existing type of deployment setup.

## Prerequisites

### Spinnaker installation

> [Spinnaker Plugin Creator's Guide](https://www.spinnaker.io/guides/developer/plugin-creators/overview/).

> Plugins are a recent addition to Spinnaker and as such require a more recent version to use plugins as well as the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This solution requires a version of Spinnaker that supports plugins as well as the Pulumi Plugin for Spinnaker itself.

```

> Pulumi plugin for Spinnaker, which this guide will show you how to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

* Spinnaker v1.19.4+ (version 1.23.x is recommended)
* Halyard 1.34+

**Note**: Refer to the [version compatibility table](https://github.com/pulumi/spinnaker-preconfigured-job-plugin#version-compatibility)
in the plugin repository.

Additionally, your Spinnaker instance should have been deployed using the [distributed installation](https://www.spinnaker.io/setup/install/environment/#distributed-installation)
method (i.e. Kubernetes).

### Pulumi

This guide assumes you are using the default Pulumi Service [managed backend](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/state/#backends).
To sign-up for a new Pulumi account, head over to the [Pulumi Console](https://app.pulumi.com/signup).

> The Pulumi plugin for Spinnaker referenced in this guide supports specifying alternate backend URLs.

Reviewer 2: My suggestion is to refer to the "Pulumi Plugin for Spinnaker" to help distinguish from generic plugin stuff ... YMMV.  If you agree, the s/r is up to you :)

The sample pipeline (shown later) below acts on a hypothetical stack: `dev`.

* Depending on your use-case, you may want to create the Pulumi Stack ahead of time.
* You can create a new stack in the [Pulumi Console](https://app.pulumi.com/site/new-project).
* Alternatively, you can also run `pulumi new [template]` to create a [template project]({{< relref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_new" >}})
on your machine and push it up to your VCS repo.
  
The source code used as an [example](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/kubernetes-ts-nginx) in this guide

> uses `TypeScript`. The example infrastructure code creates a Kubernetes `Deployment` using the `nginx` container image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
uses TypeScript. The example infrastructure code creates a Kubernetes `Deployment` using the `nginx` container image.
```

If you modify the sample app or wish to create the `Deployment` resource in a different Kubernetes cluster, follow the
setup guide for the [Kubernetes provider](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/cloud-providers/kubernetes/setup/)
to ensure that Pulumi can access that Kubernetes cluster.

> > While the example shows you how to deploy a Kubernetes resource, there are many other [cloud providers](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/cloud-providers/)
> > that Pulumi supports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example in this topic shows you how to deploy a Kubernetes resource; however, you can use any of the other [cloud providers](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/cloud-providers/) that Pulumi supports.
```

**Note**: The names used above are purely for demonstration purposes only.

> You may choose a naming convention that best suits your organization.

Reviewer: This probably doesn't need to be a note. Also, which "names" are we referring to here? The stack name? If so, then we can append this sentence to the sentence that talks about the stack name.

Author: I'll move it up to the sentence about stack name and rephrase it a bit.

setup guide for the [Kubernetes provider](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/cloud-providers/kubernetes/setup/)
to ensure that Pulumi can access that Kubernetes cluster.

> While the example shows you how to deploy a Kubernetes resource, there are many other [cloud providers](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/cloud-providers/)
> that Pulumi supports.

**Note**: The names used above are purely for demonstration purposes only.
You may choose a naming convention that best suits your organization.

## Pulumi Plugin For Spinnaker

The Pulumi plugin executes a preconfigured job as a Kubernetes batch job. The job uses the container image you specify
in the Spinnaker pipeline UI.

By default, the plugin suggests using the [`pulumi/pulumi`](https://hub.docker.com/r/pulumi/pulumi) container image available publicly on Docker Hub.
Alternatively, you can also try to use one of the other language-specific images that are available under the [`pulumi`](https://hub.docker.com/u/pulumi) org on Docker Hub.

If you would like to use your own container image for the job, ensure that the following requirements are met:

> * It should contain the Pulumi CLI, and any necessary language runtime tools, such as `node`, `python`, `dotnet`, or `go`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Your container should include the Pulumi CLI, and any necessary language runtime tools, such as `node`, `python`, `dotnet`, or `go`.
```

> * If your container image is in a private registry, that your Spinnaker cluster has the credentials to pull an image

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If your container image is in a private registry, your Spinnaker cluster must have the proper credentials to pull from the registry.
```

Go back to the main Pipelines view and click on the **Start Manual Execution** link next to your pipeline.
Once the job starts execution, you should see a **Console Output** link. Clicking it will open a modal that will show
you the current output.

**Note**: If you are running Spinnaker on your machine, it can take a while before the job starts to execute and the logs
are visible. If you see an error about `ContainerCreating` it means the pod running the job isn't ready yet.

Once the pipeline is complete, assuming you have not modified the example app, the `nginx` container would have been
deployed to the `default` namespace. Get the pod IP by running a `kubectl` command and `curl`-ing the IP to see the response:

```
kubectl get pods -o wide

curl http://<POD_IP>
```

## FAQs

**Can I get colored log output from Pulumi?**

Yes! Simply pass the Pulumi CLI arg `--color always`. Now when you open the `Console Output` modal, you should see
colors in the log output. Note that the colored logs are only visible starting with v0.2.0 of the plugin.

**How do I use the plugin with an enterprise VCS repo such as GitHub Enterprise?**

> The plugin allows you to specify custom container images. One option is to build the container image with the SSH

Reviewer 2: do we really want to suggest this?  (maybe just suggest the token approach?)

Author: I am a little conflicted on this myself. But if the image is private, then it should be fine. But of course, it's up to the Spinnaker admin to decide whether or not they want to consider this approach.

@leezen what do you think about mentioning this part?

credentials baked-in. This allows you to specify a "git SSH" URL. Consult with your Spinnaker administrator before you
do this.

The other option is to create a Personal Access Token and create a Secret resource that you reference in your stage.
You can then use the key names as placeholders in the HTTPS version of your repo URL.

**How do I specify my cloud credentials?**

As mentioned before you can define a `Secrets` resource whose key/value pairs will be mapped as environment variables.
The key names need to match the environment variables that a cloud provider supports.

The other option is similar to baking the container image with SSH credentials. You can also bake any configuration
files used by the cloud provider in the container image. For example, `~/.aws/config` and `~/.aws/credentials`.
You also have the option to override stack configuration from the pipeline stage by passing the `-c` flag and specify

> certain cloud provider settings that way. Again, taking AWS as an example, `-c aws:profile <profile name from ~/.aws/config>`.

Reviewer 3: I think similar to your above question on baking things into the container image, I would take a more generalized approach to explaining this. I think generally speaking, the common path does not bake any sort of credentials into the image. Of course, we know folks who want to do this. Instead, I would include a sentence or two in the section about using a custom image to mention that in some cases, you may want to do so if you need certain materials available within that image (whether it's credentials or something else your CD process relies upon).

Author: I like the suggestion! I'll make the updates.

Author: I have applied the suggestions to the FAQs. Could you give it another read please?

kubectl apply -f secrets.yaml
```

You can set any environment variables required for the specific providers you plan to use in your Pulumi app. For more information, see the Setup page for a given [provider](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/cloud-providers/).

For private VCS repos, you can save the Personal Access Token used to clone your repo into the batch job container. This means when you configure the Stage in the Spinnaker Pipelines UI, you can reference the same key names in the URL you specify. For example, the environment variables in the URL `https://$(GIT_USERNAME):$(GIT_PAT)@github.com/owner/repo` will automatically resolve to the correct values as per your Secret resource inside the preconfigured job container.

> {{% notes "warning" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% notes type="warning" %}}
```

`Spinnaker` namespace as well as the age of the pod.

## Plugin Configuration

Navigate to your Spinnaker instance's Deck UI, and in the pipeline that you wish to run Pulumi, click the `Add Stage`
button at the appropriate pipeline branch and find the `Run Pulumi` stage.
The Pulumi stage's UI shows you tooltips to help you fill in the values of the various input properties.

Spinnaker Pipelines support [pipeline expressions](https://www.spinnaker.io/guides/user/pipeline/expressions/) that
allow you to dynamically fill in values of inputs based on the execution of previous stages.

## Sample Pipeline (Optional)

To follow along with this example, clone the Nginx Kubernetes [example](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/kubernetes-ts-nginx) into your own repo.

Creating a pipeline in Spinnaker is easy and offers many integration options for your GitOps workflow.
In the sample pipeline we will show you how to add the Pulumi stage and create a Kubernetes resource.

1. Create a new Pipeline and click the **Add Stage** button. This will allow you to pick from a list of available stages,
  including the Pulumi stage which you would have added above.

> 1. Configure the inputs for the Pulumi stage accordingly. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Configure the inputs for the Pulumi stage accordingly.
```

   As previously mentioned in this guide, you can use [pipeline expressions](https://www.spinnaker.io/guides/user/pipeline/expressions/)
   for your stage inputs.
1. Set the value of the **Command** input to `preview`.

1. Add a [Manual Judgement](https://www.spinnaker.io/guides/tutorials/codelabs/safe-deployments/#adding-a-manual-judgment-to-deployment-pipelines)
stage to the pipeline and then let's add the Pulumi stage again, but this time we'll set the **Command** input to `up`.
Set the **Command Args** input to `-s dev --yes`, assuming your stack's name is `dev`. The `--yes` is needed since you
would be running `pulumi up` non-interactively.

1. In the end, your pipeline should look like this:

    ![Full Pipeline](/images/docs/guides/continuous-delivery/spinnaker/full-pipeline.png)

1. Go back to the main Pipelines view and click on the **Start Manual Execution** link next to your pipeline.
Once the job starts execution, you should see a **Console Output** link. Clicking it will open a modal that will show
you the current output.

> {{% notes "info" %}}
> If you are running Spinnaker on your machine, it can take several minutes before the job starts to execute and the logs are visible. If you see a`ContainerCreating` error, it means the pod running the job isn't ready yet.
> {{% /notes %}}

Reviewer: We need to indent this note so that the last step doesn't reset back to 1.

```suggestion
    {{% notes "info" %}}
If you are running Spinnaker on your machine, it can take several minutes before the job starts to execute and the logs are visible. If you see a`ContainerCreating` error, it means the pod running the job isn't ready yet.
    {{% /notes %}}
```

> 1. Once the pipeline is complete, assuming you have not modified the example app, the `nginx` container would have been

Author: ```suggestion
Once the pipeline is complete, assuming you have not modified the example app, the `nginx` container would have been
```

See the [instructions](https://github.com/pulumi/spinnaker-preconfigured-job-plugin#add-the-deck-ui-plugin) on how to
install the Deck UI plugin as well.

```
# Finally, apply the service updates
hal deploy apply
```

**Note**: Before you can access the newly-added plugin in the Deck UI, you must wait for the old `orca` Pod to be
replaced with a new one in your cluster. This can take anywhere from a minute to a few depending on the size of your cluster.
To check the state of the running pods you may run `kubectl -n spinnaker get pods`. This will print the pods in the
`Spinnaker` namespace as well as the age of the pod.

## Plugin Configuration

Navigate to your Spinnaker instance's Deck UI, and in the pipeline that you wish to run Pulumi, click the `Add Stage`
button at the appropriate pipeline branch and find the `Run Pulumi` stage.
The Pulumi stage's UI shows you tooltips to help you fill in the values of the various input properties.

Spinnaker Pipelines support [pipeline expressions](https://www.spinnaker.io/guides/user/pipeline/expressions/) that
allow you to dynamically fill in values of inputs based on the execution of previous stages.

## Sample Pipeline (Optional)

> > The following steps assume that you have cloned this Kubernetes [example](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/kubernetes-ts-nginx)
> > into your own repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To follow along with this example, clone the Nginx Kubernetes [example](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/kubernetes-ts-nginx) into your own repo.
```

Creating a pipeline in Spinnaker is easy and offers many integration options for your GitOps workflow.
In the sample pipeline we will show you how to add the Pulumi stage and create a Kubernetes resource.

> * Create a new Pipeline and click the **Add Stage** button. This will allow you to pick from a list of available stages,

Author: Done

  including the Pulumi stage which you would have added above.
* Configure the inputs for the Pulumi stage accordingly.
  * As previously mentioned in this guide, you can use [pipeline expressions](https://www.spinnaker.io/guides/user/pipeline/expressions/)
    for your stage inputs.
* Note that we are setting the value of the **Command** input to `preview`.

Add a [Manual Judgement](https://www.spinnaker.io/guides/tutorials/codelabs/safe-deployments/#adding-a-manual-judgment-to-deployment-pipelines)
stage to the pipeline and then let's add the Pulumi stage again, but this time we'll set the **Command** input to `up`
instead of `preview`. In the end, your pipeline should look like this:

![Full Pipeline](/images/docs/guides/continuous-delivery/spinnaker/full-pipeline.png)

Go back to the main Pipelines view and click on the **Start Manual Execution** link next to your pipeline.
Once the job starts execution, you should see a **Console Output** link. Clicking it will open a modal that will show
you the current output.

> **Note**: If you are running Spinnaker on your machine, it can take a while before the job starts to execute and the logs
> are visible. If you see an error about `ContainerCreating` it means the pod running the job isn't ready yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% notes "info" %}}
If you are running Spinnaker on your machine, it can take several minutes before the job starts to execute and the logs are visible. If you see a`ContainerCreating` error, it means the pod running the job isn't ready yet.
{{% /notes %}}
```

Once the pipeline is complete, assuming you have not modified the example app, the `nginx` container would have been
deployed to the `default` namespace. Get the pod IP by running a `kubectl` command and `curl`-ing the IP to see the response:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

kubectl get pods -o wide

curl http://<POD_IP>
```

## FAQs

**Can I get colored log output from Pulumi?**

Yes! Simply pass the Pulumi CLI arg `--color always`. Now when you open the `Console Output` modal, you should see
colors in the log output. Note that the colored logs are only visible starting with v0.2.0 of the plugin.

> **Can I use the plugin if my VCS repo is hosted on an enterprise git server?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Can I use the plugin if my VCS repo is hosted on an enterprise Git server?**
```
